$2.4 million in additional profit in 5
days that's what one email campaign that
we did in one of our portfolio companies
Genera and if you don't know who I am my
name is Alex rosi own acquisition. it's
a portfolio of companies Des over $250
million a year and I make these videos
so that hopefully you can grow your
business and make lots of money and then
maybe someday I can invest in your
business and help it grow too I want to
walk you through step by step exactly
what we did in this email campaign so
that you can use the same thing in your
business to get ideally even better
results so let me walk through the
context of this business number one is
it's a business that relies
predominantly on paid ads it's a
consumer-based business so lots of media
to generate lots of volume of
transactions and leads so we had a very
large email list and for the most part
we weren't doing much with that email
list besides following up for the
initial transaction and then after that
they were dead to us which I definitely
don't recommend doing but at the time
going into this it wasn't a constraint
of the business and then it became one
because all of a sudden some of our ads
weren't performing as well and all of a
sudden we thought oh my gosh we might
not head our quarterly Revenue goals
what else can we figure out enter the
email campaign cool so let's walk
through the numbers so the email list
size was
3.3 million emails now this was over a
few years that we collected these emails
and it was a traditional think about it
like an e-commerce setup so it's was an
opt-in and then a sale and then upsells
so the next major number that we need to
know is that this was a $2,000 price
point and we had an upsell on the back
end for about $88,000
that a certain percentage customers
would take now the next piece that's
important for this is that we had buyers
and non buyers that were on the list so
this was just a total list of everyone
that we had ever had now in this
business traditionally to sell just this
$2,000 item our cost to acquire customer
was
$1,200 so not a lot of margin there left
over now you can do this because it's an
automated selling machine so you can
just crank on adsen with just this
particular business does it's a nine
figure company in terms of annual
revenue but we're like hey one of the
other stats about email that's important
is that the cost to a Car customer on
email once you've already acquired the
lead is $0 which if I can have free
customers that means whatever my gross
profit is of selling my main thing drops
straight to my bottom line and so as a
mental contract for this I like to think
about email kind of like a long-term
investment account and so it's like you
run ads every single day or you do
outbound or whatever it is to build your
list up and that's kind of like your
paycheck right like you put work in and
you get paid back right and it's just
just like a direct relationship whereas
the email is kind of like your 401k it's
kind of like your investment account
that you put you put money into and then
over time it starts to compound and
compound and compound and if you have an
email strategy and I'm going to give you
kind of an overarching email strategy
that we like to employe in businesses
this business just is crushed doing what
we've been doing so it hasn't been the
main focus but if you have a business
like it is one of the easiest ways to
just immediately plug in and print money
and then the nice thing is is that even
if it's late to the game I mean this
this business does a lot of money uh you
can still employ it and then immediately
see the results there's two things about
email and having followup Beyond initial
followup that makes a business more
valuable number one is that all sales
that will come from email are going to
drop straight to the bottom line in
terms of profit and so most businesses
95% of businesses are traded on a
multiple of bottom line and so since
these sales drop straight to the bottom
line it will be a big enhance answer on
the Enterprise Value the second point is
that if you have consistent email sales
that come in that number isn't going to
really CH like tomorrow you don't go
from 3.3 million to one and a. half
million emails on your list unless you
know you clean the list or whatever but
fundamentally the list size isn't going
to change overnight your ads might
change overnight but your email list
won't so what that does is it actually
can smooth out volatility that occurs in
a business which would make it more
attractive to an investor long term
you'd like to have some sort of regular
email Cadence because things like
deliverability and domain reputation and
things like that come into play I'm not
going to get into that stuff for this
video I'm just going to talk about big
picture email strategy that you can
employ in your business now to make
money great now that we have the numbers
in the context let's talk about the
campaign so what we did for the list is
that we promoted a challenge and it was
a 7-Day Challenge and the reason that I
think this is interesting and important
is that number one this came from the
marketing director and I think the
reason that I want to highlight this is
that this is why you need to have smart
people this didn't come from me this
didn't come from the founder the
marketing director was like hey I think
we should do a challenge now we weren't
actually super on board for this because
we're like hey this might be a
distraction but it turned out to be
really really good and added over a
hundred million in Enterprise Value to
the business remember this business is
already a multi hundred million dollar
Enterprise Value business and so adding
10 or 20% to the Enterprise Value can be
a very big difference the second thing
is this challenge actually came from the
product and so we pulled out something
that was already something that we knew
work that we were for customers we
pulled it out and we made it into a lead
magnet and so fundamentally a lead
magnet is a very is a complete solution
to a very narrow problem and ideally
once you solve that problem you create
the next problem which you solve with
your offer and so fundamentally that is
what a good lead magnet does and this is
why challenges I think are very strong
lead magnets for a lot of businesses
because they also satisfy all the
elements of a value equation which I
talk about in my first book $100 million
offers which has sold almost a million
copies so far now the value equation
works like this you've got the out
which is the thing that people want and
so as long as you have a clearly defined
outcome that they want then that becomes
more valuable now you multiply that by
low risk or the perceived likelihood of
achievement How likely is it that when I
buy this thing I'm going to get this
thing if you have an outcome you want
and it's guaranteed to get it you're
this is going to be really valuable but
there's two other elements the thing is
is how long is it going to take so if it
takes a really long time then I'm be
like okay sure I have this outcome which
is I get really rich and the guarantee
is is that it'll definitely happen but I
got to wait 20 years of investing my
money to become really rich well it's
not as attractive anymore right then you
do uh ease which is how hard is it so
effort and sacrifice that are associated
with this outcome and so these are the
four elements of value and so a
challenge is a really clear outcome that
everybody wants it has high likelihood
of actually happening it happens really
fast because we get attach of time to it
and because we're going to say hey we're
only going to do this one thing and
we're going to give you all the steps it
the perception of the Prospect is that
it's easy which makes these very strong
lead magnets if you want to go through
the experience of what going through one
of these challenges looks like and you
are somebody who wants to start a
business already have a business either
way you can go join the school challenge
for free it's for 14 days we walk you
through everything that we have I take
calls in that Community to help people
get their first business online started
we have everything down step by step
once a month I drop a full day
Mastermind training of all the people
who are starting communities and making
them uh we've got it down like we're
pretty good at helping people get to
that first dollar and so you can for
free go to school.com games and I'll see
you in there so for this particular
business it's a business that helps
people achieve an outcome that actually
takes a little bit of time and so what
we did was say okay is there a smaller
mini version of this big outcome that we
can just kind of give them a taste so if
I was in weight loss I'd probably have
them do some sort of like 7-Day cleanse
or something like that again I'm not
going to get into what's good what's bad
here I'm just saying that I would have
some person that gets you know they lose
7 lbs in 7 days a lot of that's going to
be water but they're excited about it
they're like great now let's talk about
your long-term goals right because now
they have a element of belief they
they've taken action they've gotten some
reward for their behavior they've
interacted with us all of these things
align with them making a purchase what
challenges do is they approximate brand
and so this is how it actually works the
reason the direct response internet
marketing world does a lot of these
things is because none of them have
Brands and so like for me for example if
someone's already consumed a gazillion
videos of mine or podcast of mine then
if I say hey do you want to check this
thing out a lot of people are like yeah
you've already given me a gazillion
other things and so sure but if you're
brand new then what you do is you
basically approximate a relationship
where you would have already had a lot
of interaction so you basically try and
cram you know a six-month relationship
into seven days so it's kind of like one
of those dating shows where they say
will you get married in 30 days and they
like try and cram a whole relationship
into that period it actually kind of is
the same thing when you come from a
marketing perspective you're just
rapidly warming up you're like
microwaving the prospect rather than
slow cooking it which is kind of the
normal branding
right and for example in the school
games that's our version of a challenge
right we just call the school games the
cooler rapper we have leaderboards and
prizes and like that and so we walk
people through how to start a business
online and so we get one out of three
people just under to get their first
dollar within their first month which is
pretty cool we put a lot of time into
getting that kind of outcome and then
once someone makes a dollar then they're
like shoot I can see how I could make
more dollars and so that's the idea is
like you want to approximate you want to
do it really fast you make as easy as
possible make it as guaranteed as
possible and an outcome that they care
about so now that you know what the
setup is let's go back and add a couple
of numbers to this campaign and then
I'll walk you through it happened so we
sent the emails only to a small sub
segment of the list so we had 464,000
people that we sent it to and that was
because we wanted to test it out we
didn't want to blow our load on
the on the whole
list and so we just set it to like 15%
of the list and the reason we did that
is cuz like hey if this thing bombed we
didn't want to like piss off the entire
list list and so we sent it to 15% of
the list a lot of them were non- buyers
and from there what we saw is we had
10,000 people who
registered for this thing which good or
bad whatever for us in an absolute
number 10,000 people shows a a pretty
decent amount of Interest so in order to
get this 10,000 we had an 18% open rate
meaning 18 you know just about one out
of five people opened the actual email
okay great now from there we had about
five % of those people actually click to
join the thing and then the rest was the
optim percentage on the page to register
that got us to 10,000 so it went from
464 to
83,000 uh that opened it from the 83,000
10,000 of them actually registered so a
pretty good percentage actually uh who
did click wanted to do it and as you get
into a Cadence of this which I'll
explain at the end in terms of how to
implement this ongoing as an email
strategy to make more money is that as
soon as you really nail what that that
lead magnet is or what that challenge is
or whatever it is that you're going to
get your leads to engage again or
re-engage these funnel metrics will
always improve you're going to split
test the subject headlines you're going
to split test the opening on the email
you're going to split test the ctas and
the links that you're going to use the
landing pages that you send them to the
offer that you that you attract them
with the headline of the the naming of
the challenge which by the way is a
great way to vary this up if you do it
like once a quarter which I'll talk
about later like you can do the same
play but you just put a different
wrapper on it so for example in the gym
World cuz I came from this world it's
like I might have a six week uh you know
six we challenge I might have a 42-day
fix I might have a 42-day transformation
I might have a six we booty blast I
might have a six week uh slim for Santa
I might have a lean by Halloween like
I've done a lot of these accountabil
buddy you know challenge like I've done
a lot and you know slim for summer all
of these things work um but
fundamentally what are we going to do
we're going to eat you're going to eat
less you're going to move more and so
even though the deliverable of the
challenge or the lead magnet might more
or less be the same you can just wrap it
seasonally or you can wrap it based on a
specific pain point that happens at that
time of year so let me walk you through
the the results math
right so we'll do a clean page so we had
10,000 people who registered I actually
don't have the data on how many people
uh attended live and watched throughout
the whole seven days I can get this but
I'll just I know that the high level and
so from 10,000 we had 800 people who
actually bought all right so we had
about 8% of people who made the purchase
which is pretty good not unhappy about
that at all do I think we can improve it
yes but fundamentally this was to a list
of plenty of people who hadn't bought
they knew who we were so I'd say it was
a little bit warmer than true cold uh
but a lot of them had never bought
anything from us before and so that
resulted remember this is a $2,000 price
point in $1.6 million in new sales that
we did just from this email campaign
you're like wait a second I thought you
said you did 2 million or more than 2
million let me explain what happened
from there so from there we had 20% of
people ascended into the AK product
which allowed us to make an extra 800k
from the ascensions and so that gave us
$2.4 million in total from this 7-Day
email campaign now I want to break
something very cool off for you which is
that you see 2.4 million now that was
derived from a list that was 464,000
emails and so that means we were making
roughly six bucks per email in this
campaign and so if you know that you do
this call it four times a year which I
would recommend you do when we get into
the takeaway section meaning one time
per quarter you do a cleanup we say
great we're going to take all the leads
that we had and we're going to run them
through a conversion mechanism in this
way it's not like oh shoot I have to do
this all the time it's like all right
I'm going to do this big thing we do it
once a quarter and we clean up our q1 we
clean up our Q2 we clean up R Q3 by
running all of our leads through this
High converting funnel that we've
structured purposely for non- buyers so
we have different hooks different front
ends that has different messaging that
might not have been the primary message
that converts the most people which is
our first you know whack at it but this
is our second and third whack at it and
by varying the titles that you use in
each of the quarterly things that you do
so q1 will have a different name than Q2
you'll still be able to attract people
without necessarily fatiguing or tiring
the list and in between those times you
can then simply provide value to the
list and so you've deposited some
Goodwill that earns you the right to be
able to ask for the sale so let me walk
you through the takeaways that we had
from this that you can use for your own
business to make more money so there's
four main takeaways that I would
recommend you take from this that I take
from this number one is smart people all
right so you have to be able to trust
your people to make recommendations now
neither the CEO nor I so I like to say
this like I also am not always in favor
of ideas that make lots of money cuz I
mess up too um but we were like you know
what they're a little closer to it we
will trust that they're super excited
about it cuz the flip side is if you
bash every idea that your team comes to
you with then they're not they're going
to stop thinking about ideas and then
all of a sudden you're like why doesn't
my my team ever think of anything it's
like well because you turn them down
every time and so there's kind of like
what Hills do I want to die on and what
times do I want to say hey give it a
shot I don't think like is this going to
do damage to the brand no I don't think
so we're currently not doing anything
there and if you're really passionate
about it sure let's do it so one having
smart people two which is trusting them
all right so I say this is still his
first kind of people related for this is
you still got to trust those people and
make a bet with them and part of the
reason I say trust them obviously you
want to trust them because they're
competent they're intelligent and
they're well-intentioned but the other
thing is that they sometimes just have
data that you don't have because
fundamentally in a business there's data
that's happening all over the place and
you are only going to get Snippets as a
CEO especially the bigger the company is
right this is the business of almost 10
million a month like it's a very large
business there's lots of things going on
and so that person is going to be much
closer to the data have a much closer
pulse uh than sometimes the founder or
CEO might have and so sometimes they
have data that you're not working with
and that's why extending a bridge of
trust is is is important so the second
takeaway is
offers to money all right so the amount
of offers that you make to any Prospect
is directly correlated with the amount
of money that you'll make with the
single caveat that every time you make
an offer you lose Goodwill and so what
you want to do is make sure that you're
depositing sufficient Goodwill that you
can earn the ask and so make as many as
you can while also providing as much
value as you can which means that if you
want to make a lot of offers you just
got to provide that much more value now
with this particular instance we were
going to a list that we had emailed but
not a lot but we hadn't really emailed
any offers to in a very long time and so
even though we weren't putting a ton of
value our give to ask ratio was still
okay because we hadn't asked at all and
so I talk about the give to ask ratio in
the content section of this book and the
reason that I actually consider email a
form of content is that it's one to many
distribution to people who know you now
it's just free which also is just like
when you post on social media the only
difference is that you control 100% of
who gets this whereas on social media
algorithms and things that distribute
your content but fundamentally you're
Distributing one message to many people
and it's free and so that is what makes
email so profitable just like organic
and I want to add a little caveat here
which is that it's okay to ask for the
sale again and so all these people or
the majority of these buyers hadn't
bought bought this thing and so when we
asked again some people are afraid of
making the second ask but people get
busy you know they they leave a shopping
cart up and then they you know their
their kid screams and they forget about
it like it happens and so you can't get
too bent out of shape on the fact that
like you're going to offend people by
asking them it's okay to ask as long as
you earned the right and you've given
until you've deposited enough Goodwill
that there's enough demand there surge
there that you can let loose the valve
of money and it can come on and then you
can close it again
so the third takeaway is that you can
sell the same thing in a different way
and so I can sell a product on a webinar
I could sell it on a phone I could sell
it via a live Workshop in person I could
sell it via email and so you can have
less offer fatigue by selling the same
offer in a different medium and so you
can get more hacks or more at bets
because people will judge their Goodwill
with you based on the medium that you're
communicating in and so this is
something that I have found it also by
the way is a great way to vary products
up and so for example if you're an
educator I'll just use this because it's
simple uh if I have content on the
internet that's free if I make a course
you could charge for it or you could
make it free if I deliver that same
course in a book format it's not going
to be able to sell for the same amount
that a course could if I deliver that
same format in a live inperson
experience that's going to be probably
charged significantly more than it would
in a digital format if I did a live
format but virtual it would be a
different price point than the live and
in person and so for each of these
mediums even if the same commun same
information is being taught you price it
differently it's the same reason that
when you go in person in college they
charge you a arm and a leg for it but
digital College almost ubiquitously is
way way way lower priced even though
it's the same information it's simply
being delivered through a different
medium and so you can sell in different
mediums and deliver in different mediums
and from my experience people will
apprise or judge the decision based on
that Medium exclusively so the fourth
takeway is what I'll just call the
quarterly cleanup so this is probably
the most tactical recommendation that I
can give you that I alluded to a little
bit earlier which is I would recommend
that you do this once every quarter you
do this conversion mechanism whether you
do some sort of challenge or some sort
of defined outcome or some sort of lead
magn that you use to re-engage your list
and put them through some sort of
conversion event with a deadline with a
big promise that you know you can
deliver on and so if you do this once a
a quarter and you weren't doing this you
could almost immediately add like you
saw the the numbers there we had $6 per
email from that $450,000 sub segment now
to prove that this worked what we did
was we just did it again by the way one
of my favorite business strategies do
something that works do it again do more
of it and ideally do it better and so we
ran the exact same play again to a
different Subs segment of the list and
boom we hit 2.2 million we didn't even
wait a quarter we just did it the next
month and so I say this because this
stuff works and once you know it works
you can keep duplicating it over and
over again and guess what we're going to
do next quarter now that we know that we
tested it on two subse segments we're
going to do it to the whole list and
we're going to use the learnings that we
had from the first two tests and so if
you are going to run this as the corner
cleanup I would recommend using 10% of
your list or a smaller percentage
because believe me as soon as you learn
the things that you messed up on the
first try you're going to be really
grateful that you didn't run into the
entire list so do one two or three test
runs before you blow the the whole list
up with this new uh promo that you've
already tested the messaging the subject
head the ctas the landing page those
little tests that you can run in the
meantime that can sometimes double or
triple the throughput of the campaign
and so with every one of these campaigns
I would recommend always testing some
elements of it so you can always make it
a little bit better and so one you're
doing this every quarter two you can
test it with a small portion of the list
three is that in order to make it seem
and appear different to the non- buyer
who doesn't buy on the first hack or the
second hack we change the naming of it
or the wrapper of it so change the
landing page change the subject head of
the email change the name of the
challenge or the lead magnet even if the
core components are the same
fundamentally your business isn't going
to change right but the way that you
position it or the reason why that you
have the promotion can and I recommend
doing something that's seasonal or doing
something that's a life event for you I
talked about this in the the last
chapter of the offers book which this is
ESP specially important for local
businesses because you have much smaller
audiences and so fatigue happens much
faster with a tiny audience and so you
actually have to have a lot more variety
and I know this cuz that was the world I
came from and so that's why I have all
these these isms in the back of my mind
of how I had to wrap and rewrap the same
thing which is fundamentally Fitness and
Nutrition right like how many ways can I
slice it turns out a lot and I will say
that once you have one annual calendar
you can pretty much stick with it so you
don't need to come up with another thing
next year once you have your four big
promos that you're going to run
throughout the year that you know are
tested those just become autopilot and
they just become cash printers and if
this type of case study deep breakdowns
on business interesting you I have
another one where I doubled one of our
portfolio companies in 60 days check
that one out